---
layout: post
title: Italian Pt. 1
---

# Italian Pt. 1

Since I seem to be back on the saddle of learning Italian I thought it'd we worth it to document my progress as well as the tools and techniques that I'm using. This can also serve as a bit of motivation to keep up with my studies.

My current daily goal is to study Italian for 20-30 minutes depending on the day. At this rate, I won't be fluent for quite a while, but I don't really see a need to put more time into it. I'm not moving to Italy any time soon and getting married to an Italian (or to anyone for that matter) is not the cards for a while.

I'm using two main tools to help learn Italian:
- Anki
- Busuu

## Anki

I'm sure most know what Anki is. If not, [the Anki site](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) does a wonderful job of explaining its use cases. Basically, it's a flashcard application built on the principle of [spaced repetition](https://www.gwern.net/Spaced-repetition).

I currently have two main decks:
- Italian Grammar
- Italian Vocab

The vocab deck has many more cards than the grammar deck and it's where I throw pretty much any Italian word I encounter. I use the grammar deck to reinforce grammatical concepts and significant words or phrases (such as the demonstrative adjectives *questo* and *quello*).

I use tags to further segregate my cards but, at this early stage, I don't have that many cards to contend with. As of writing I have less than 150 cards in the vocab deck. This number grows by about 10-20 cards per day and will probably end up in the thousands as I near fluency.

Anki is an amazing little app with a lot of functionality. It's written in Python and is fast, *really* fast. The UI isn't amazing but I'm willing to sacrifice that for the power that it brings. Of course, a lot of the magic of Anki stems from the science of spaced repetition. I haven't been going long enough to really see the effects but I doubt I'll single-handedly disprove a well established theory. 

All in all, Anki is great and the fact that it's FOSS (Free and Open Source Software) is amazing. Please consider using it and contributing to it if you can.

## Busuu

I honestly don't know if Busuu is the best language learning app/subscription. I've heard of and tried a long list of competitors. I think I just got tired of trying to find the "best" one and decided to stick with Busuu. My honest opinion of it as a paid subscriber follows...

It's not bad. Is it the best? Probably not. But it's much better at engaging you than something like Duolingo. And the pronunciation is great (usually). It has a slew of different tests and scenarios including but not limited to drag and drop, fill in the blank, repeat the word or phrase, matching, and multiple choice.

Busuu also seems to at least partially adhere to the theory of spaced repetition by letting you test yourself on words and concepts that you may be on the cusp of forgetting.

But, is it worth it?

I bought a one year "Premium Plus" subscription (which might be called "Serious" as well) for $44.99. In my opinion, it's worth it for that price especially considering something like Duolingo Plus costs around $120/year.

There's more to find out about Busuu (including detailed pricing info) on [their site](https://www.busuu.com/).

## Methodology
I'm going to be spending the first 1-2 months really hammering in common vocabulary and basic grammatical concepts. The point is to keep it simple and steady. I don't want to burn out or feel like this is some life or death scenario.

I tried to put together some goals that make sense to cross out by the end of that timeframe. Some of them include:
- having a 5 minute conversation with a native Italian speaker without help
- writing a 1 paragraph story in Italian without help
- watching an Italian YouTube video with Italian subtitles and understanding (almost) everything

More of my goals for more than just Italian can be found on my [Impossible List](https://ilist.victorbilgin.com/).

---
Thanks for reading through this. Feel free to send me an email (link below) if you want to talk about language learning or anything else. I'll make more posts as I progress. Good luck!